tutorials/index.md, before:

---
jupytext:
  text_representation:
    extension: .md
    format_name: myst
    format_version: 0.13
    jupytext_version: 1.10.3
kernelspec:
  display_name: Python 3
  language: python
  name: python3
---

# napari tutorials

+++

Welcome to the napari tutorials! Our main development occurs on the
[napari/napari](https://github.com/napari/napari) repository. Here we've
provided a few tutorials to explore the main usage modes and methods of napari.
Before we dive in, let's talk a bit about what napari actually is and why we're
developing it.

+++

## what is napari?

**napari** is a fast, interactive, multi-dimensional image viewer for Python.
It's designed for browsing, annotating, and analyzing large multi-dimensional
images. It's built on top of `Qt` (for the GUI), `vispy` (for performant
GPU-based rendering), and the scientific Python stack (e.g. `numpy`, `scipy`).
It includes critical viewer features out-of-the-box, such as support for large
multi-dimensional data, and layering and annotation. By integrating closely with
the Python ecosystem, **napari** can be easily coupled to leading machine
learning and image analysis tools (e.g. `scikit-image`, `scikit-learn`,
`TensorFlow`, `PyTorch`), enabling more user-friendly automated analysis.

```{code-cell} python
import napari
from skimage.data import cells3d

cells = cells3d()[30, 1]  # get some data
viewer = napari.view_image(cells, colormap='magma')
```

```{code-cell} python
:tags: [hide-input]

from napari.utils import nbscreenshot

nbscreenshot(viewer)
```

We're developing **napari** in the open! But the project is in an **alpha**
stage, and there will still likely be **breaking changes** with each release.
You can follow progress on this repository, test out new versions as we release
them, and contribute ideas and code.

To get a sense of our current plans checkout and contribute to the discussion on
some of our [long-term feature
issues](https://github.com/napari/napari/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22long-term+feature%22)
on Github.

To checkout some cool example uses of **napari** with scientific data see our
[gallery](./gallery).

+++

## getting started

These tutorials target people who want to use napari as a user. If you are also
interested in contributing to napari then please check out [contributing
guidelines](https://github.com/napari/napari/blob/master/docs/developers/contributing.md).

If you've already got napari installed, then begin with our [getting
started](./fundamentals/getting_started) tutorial. For help installing napari
checkout our [installing napari](./fundamentals/installation) tutorial.

+++

## help

We're a community partner on the [imagesc
forum](https://forum.image.sc/tags/napari) and all help and support requests
should be posted on the forum with the tag `napari`. We look forward to
interacting with you there.

+++

## improving the tutorials

Our tutorials are hosted on Github at
[napari/tutorials](https://github.com/napari/tutorials). If as you're going
through the tutorials you spot any errors or can think of ways to improve them
please raise an issue on the repository or make a PR, we'd love to have the
community help make them better for everyone.

[napari tutorials home page](http://www.napari.org/tutorials)

```{code-cell} python
:tags: [remove-cell]

viewer.close()
```

Commit message:

Update links to napari.github.io repository (#182)
* Update links to napari.github.io repository

* Trigger Build.

tutorials/index.md, after:

---
jupytext:
  text_representation:
    extension: .md
    format_name: myst
    format_version: 0.13
    jupytext_version: 1.10.3
kernelspec:
  display_name: Python 3
  language: python
  name: python3
---

# napari tutorials

+++

Welcome to the napari tutorials! Our main development occurs on the
[napari/napari](https://github.com/napari/napari) repository. Here we've
provided a few tutorials to explore the main usage modes and methods of napari.
Before we dive in, let's talk a bit about what napari actually is and why we're
developing it.

+++

## what is napari?

**napari** is a fast, interactive, multi-dimensional image viewer for Python.
It's designed for browsing, annotating, and analyzing large multi-dimensional
images. It's built on top of `Qt` (for the GUI), `vispy` (for performant
GPU-based rendering), and the scientific Python stack (e.g. `numpy`, `scipy`).
It includes critical viewer features out-of-the-box, such as support for large
multi-dimensional data, and layering and annotation. By integrating closely with
the Python ecosystem, **napari** can be easily coupled to leading machine
learning and image analysis tools (e.g. `scikit-image`, `scikit-learn`,
`TensorFlow`, `PyTorch`), enabling more user-friendly automated analysis.

```{code-cell} python
import napari
from skimage.data import cells3d

cells = cells3d()[30, 1]  # get some data
viewer = napari.view_image(cells, colormap='magma')
```

```{code-cell} python
:tags: [hide-input]

from napari.utils import nbscreenshot

nbscreenshot(viewer)
```

We're developing **napari** in the open! But the project is in an **alpha**
stage, and there will still likely be **breaking changes** with each release.
You can follow progress on this repository, test out new versions as we release
them, and contribute ideas and code.

To get a sense of our current plans checkout and contribute to the discussion on
some of our [long-term feature
issues](https://github.com/napari/napari/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22long-term+feature%22)
on Github.

To checkout some cool example uses of **napari** with scientific data see our
[gallery](./gallery).

+++

## getting started

These tutorials target people who want to use napari as a user. If you are also
interested in contributing to napari then please check out [contributing
guidelines](https://github.com/napari/napari/blob/master/docs/developers/contributing.md).

If you've already got napari installed, then begin with our [getting
started](./fundamentals/getting_started) tutorial. For help installing napari
checkout our [installing napari](./fundamentals/installation) tutorial.

+++

## help

We're a community partner on the [imagesc
forum](https://forum.image.sc/tags/napari) and all help and support requests
should be posted on the forum with the tag `napari`. We look forward to
interacting with you there.

+++

## improving the tutorials

Our tutorials are hosted on Github at
[napari/napari.github.io](https://github.com/napari/napari.github.io)
in the "tutorials" folder. If as you're going
through the tutorials you spot any errors or can think of ways to improve them
please raise an issue on the repository or make a PR, we'd love to have the
community help make them better for everyone.

[napari tutorials home page](http://www.napari.org/tutorials)

```{code-cell} python
:tags: [remove-cell]

viewer.close()
```
