_sources/tutorials/processing/dask.md, before:

# Using Dask and napari to process & view large datasets

Often in microscopy, multidimensional data is acquired and written to disk in many small files,
each of which contain a subset of one or more dimensions from the complete dataset.
For example, in a 5-dimensional experiment
(e.g. 3D z-stacks acquired for multiple channels at various moments over time),
each file on disk might be a 3D TIFF stack from a single channel at a single timepoint.
Data may also be stored in some proprietary format.
As the size of the dataset grows,
viewing arbitrary slices (in time, channel, z) of these datasets can become cumbersome.

Chunked file formats exist (such as [hdf5](https://support.hdfgroup.org/HDF5/) and [zarr](https://zarr.readthedocs.io/en/stable/)) that store data in a way that makes it easier to retrieve arbitrary subsets of the dataset, but they require either data duplication, or "committing" to a new file standard.

> **Note**: This tutorial is not meant to promote a folder of TIFFs as a "good way" to store large datasets on disk;
> but it is undoubtedly a common scenario in microscopy.
> Chunked formats such as `hdf5` or `zarr` are superior in many ways,
> but they do require the user to either duplicate their data
> or go "all in" and delete the original data after conversion.
> And while `napari` can easily handle something like a `zarr` store,
> it can be a bit more limiting inasmuch as it requires programs that are capable of viewing it (i.e. you can't necessarily just drag it into Fiji ...)

The first part of this tutorial demonstrates how to use [`Dask`](https://docs.dask.org/en/latest/)
and [`dask.delayed`](https://docs.dask.org/en/latest/delayed.html)
(or [`dask_image`](https://github.com/dask/dask-image)) to feed `napari` image data "[lazily](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lazy_evaluation)":
that is, the specific image file corresponding to the requested timepoint/channel
is only read from disk at the moment it is required
(based on the current position of the dimension sliders in `napari`).
Additionally, we will see that *any* function that takes a filepath
and returns a `numpy` array can be used to lazily read image data.
This can be useful if you have a proprietary format that is not immediately recognized by `napari`
(but for which you have at least some way of reading into a `numpy` array)

In some cases, data must be further processed prior to viewing,
such as a deskewing step for images acquired on a stage-scanning light sheet microscope.
Or perhaps you'd like to apply some basic image corrections or ratiometry prior to viewing.
The second part of this tutorial demonstrates the use of the [`dask.array.map_blocks`](https://docs.dask.org/en/latest/array-api.html#dask.array.map_blocks) function
to describe an arbitrary sequence of functions in a declarative manner
that will be performed *on demand* as you explore the data (i.e. move the sliders) in `napari`.

## Using `dask.delayed` to load images

If you have a function that can take a filename and return a `numpy` array,
such as `skimage.io.imread`,
you can create a "lazy" version of that function by calling `dask.delayed` on the function itself.
This *new* function, when handed a filename,
will not actually read the file until explicitly asked with the `compute()` method:

```python
from skimage.io import imread
from dask import delayed

lazy_imread = delayed(imread)
reader = lazy_imread('/path/to/file.tif')  # doesn't actually read the file
array = reader.compute()  # *now* it reads.
```

(If you have an unusual image format,
but you *do* have a python function that returns a `numpy` array,
simply substitute it for `skimage.io.imread` in the example above).

We can create a [Dask array](https://docs.dask.org/en/latest/array.html) of delayed file-readers
for *all* of the files in our multidimensional experiment using the `dask.array.from_delayed` function
and a [`glob`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/glob.html) filename pattern
(*this example assumes that all files are of the same `shape` and `dtype`!*):

```python
from skimage.io import imread
from skimage.io.collection import alphanumeric_key
from dask import delayed
import dask.array as da
from glob import glob

filenames = sorted(glob("/path/to/experiment/*.tif"), key=alphanumeric_key)
# read the first file to get the shape and dtype
# ASSUMES THAT ALL FILES SHARE THE SAME SHAPE/TYPE
sample = imread(filenames[0])

lazy_imread = delayed(imread)  # lazy reader
lazy_arrays = [lazy_imread(fn) for fn in filenames]
dask_arrays = [
    da.from_delayed(delayed_reader, shape=sample.shape, dtype=sample.dtype)
    for delayed_reader in lazy_arrays
]
# Stack into one large dask.array
stack = da.stack(dask_arrays, axis=0)
stack.shape  # (nfiles, nz, ny, nx)

# in jupyter notebook the repr of a dask stack provides a useful visual:
stack
```

![image: dask array html representation](../assets/tutorials/dask_repr.png)

*No data has been read from disk yet!*

`napari` is capable of consuming Dask arrays,
so you can simply call `napari.view_image` on this `stack` and behind the scenes,
Dask will take care of reading the data from disk
and handing a `numpy` array to `napari` each time a new timepoint or channel is requested.

```python
import napari

# specify contrast_limits and multiscale=False with big data
# to avoid unnecessary computations
napari.view_image(stack, contrast_limits=[0,2000], multiscale=False)
```

*Note: providing the* `contrast_limits` *and* `multiscale` *arguments prevents* `napari` *from trying to calculate the data min/max, which can take an extremely long time with big data.
See [napari issue #736](https://github.com/napari/napari/issues/736) for further discussion.*

## Make your life easier with `dask-image`

This pattern for creating a `dask.array` from image data
has been previously described in an [excellent blog post](https://blog.dask.org/2019/06/20/load-image-data) by John Kirkham.
It is a common-enough pattern that John created a useful library ([`dask-image`](https://github.com/dask/dask-image))
that does all this for you,
provided your image format can be read by the [`pims`](https://github.com/soft-matter/pims) (Python Image Sequence) reader
(if not, see note above about providing your own reader function with `dask.delayed`).

Using `dask-image`, *all* of the above code can be simplified to 5 lines:

```python
import napari
from dask_image.imread import imread

stack = imread("/path/to/experiment/*.tif")
napari.view_image(stack, contrast_limits=[0,2000], multiscale=False)
```

![image: mCherry-H2B showing chromosome separation during mitosis. Collected on a lattice light sheet microscope](../assets/tutorials/dask1.webm)

### **Side note regarding higher-dimensional datasets**

In the above example, it would be quite common to have a 5+ dimensional dataset
(e.g. different timepoints *and* channels represented among the 3D TIFF files in a folder).
A standard approach to deal with that sort of thing in `numpy` would be to `reshape` the array after instantiation.
With Dask, reshaping arrays can *sometimes* lead to unexpected read events if you're not careful.

For example:

```python
from dask_image.imread import imread
stack = imread('/path/to/experiment/*.tif')
stack.shape  # -> something like (1200, 64, 256, 280)
stack[0].compute()  # incurs a single file read

# if there were two channels in that folder you might try to do this:
stack = stack.reshape(2, 600, 64, 256, 280)
# but now trying to read just the first timepoint in the first channel:
stack[0, 0].compute()  # incurs 600 read events!
```

We will update this post as best-practices emerge,
but one possible solution to this is to avoid reshaping
Dask arrays altogether, by constructing multiple Dask arrays using `dask-image`, and then using
`da.stack` to combine them:

```python
from dask_image.imread import imread
import dask.array as da

# # instead of this
# stack = imread('/path/to/experiment/*.tif')
# stack = stack.reshape(2, 600, 64, 256, 280)
# stack[0, 0].compute()  # incurs 600 read events!

# do something like this:
file_pattern = "/path/to/experiment/*ch{}*.tif"
channels = [imread(file_pattern.format(i)) for i in range(nchannels)]
stack = da.stack(channels)
stack.shape  # (2, 600, 64, 256, 280)
stack[0, 0].compute()  # incurs a single file read

```

## Processing data with `dask.array.map_blocks`

As previously mentioned,
sometimes it is desirable to process data prior to viewing.
We'll take as an example
a series of TIFF files acquired on a lattice-light-sheet microscope.
A typical workflow might be to deskew, deconvolve, and perhaps crop
or apply some channel registration prior to viewing.

With `dask.array.map_blocks` we can apply any function that accepts a `numpy` array
and returns a modified array to all the images in our `dask.array`.
It will be evaluated lazily, when requested (in this case, by `napari`);
we do not have to wait for it to process the entire dataset.

Here is an example of a script that will take a folder of raw tiff files,
and lazily read, deskew, deconvolve, crop,
and display them, *on demand* as you move the `napari` dimensions sliders around.

```python
import napari
import pycudadecon
from functools import partial
from skimage import io
from dask_image.imread import imread

# load stacks with dask_image, and psf with skimage
stack = imread("/path/to/experiment/*.tif")
psf = io.imread("/path/to/psf.tif")

# prepare some functions that accept a numpy array
# and return a processed array

def last3dims(f):
    # this is just a wrapper because the pycudadecon function
    # expects ndims==3 but our blocks will have ndim==4
    def func(array):
        return f(array[0])[None, ...]
    return func


def crop(array):
    # simple cropping function
    return array[:, 2:, 10:-20, :500]

# https://docs.python.org/3.8/library/functools.html#functools.partial
deskew = last3dims(partial(pycudadecon.deskew_gpu, angle=31.5))
deconv = last3dims(partial(pycudadecon.decon, psf=psf, background=10))
# note: this is done in two steps just as an example...
# in reality pycudadecon.decon also has a deskew argument

# map and chain those functions across all dask blocks
deskewed = stack.map_blocks(deskew, dtype="uint16")
deconvolved = deskewed.map_blocks(deconv, dtype="float32")
cropped = deconvolved.map_blocks(crop, dtype="float32")

# put the resulting dask array into napari.
# (don't forget the contrast limits and multiscale==False !)
v = napari.view_image(
    cropped,
    contrast_limits=[90, 1500],
    multiscale=False,
    ndisplay=3,
    scale=(3, 1, 1),
)

napari.run()
```

Of course, the GUI isn't as responsive as it would be if you had processed the data up front
and loaded the results into RAM and viewed them in `napari` (it's doing a lot of work after all!),
but it's surprisingly usable,
and allows you to preview the result of a relatively complex processing pipeline *on-the-fly*,
for arbitrary timepoints/channels, while storing *only* the raw data on disk.

![image: same dataset, demonstrating on-the-fly read → deskew → deconvolve → crop](../assets/tutorials/dask2.webm)

This workflow is very much patterned after [another great post by John Kirkham, Matthew Rocklin, and Matthew McCormick](https://blog.dask.org/2019/08/09/image-itk)
that describes a similar image processing pipeline using [ITK](https://itk.org/).
`napari` simply sits at the end of this lazy processing chain,
ready to show you the result on demand!

## Further reading

- [Documentation on dask.delayed](https://docs.dask.org/en/latest/delayed.html)
- [Dask working notes on dask-image](https://blog.dask.org/2019/06/20/load-image-data)
- [Dask working notes on image processing with `dask.array.map_blocks`](https://blog.dask.org/2019/08/09/image-itk)

Commit message:

deploy: napari/napari@57c3c348022ffc362f8712ec844dadb0579b7276

_sources/tutorials/processing/dask.md, after:

# Using Dask and napari to process & view large datasets

Often in microscopy, multidimensional data is acquired and written to disk in many small files,
each of which contain a subset of one or more dimensions from the complete dataset.
For example, in a 5-dimensional experiment
(e.g. 3D z-stacks acquired for multiple channels at various moments over time),
each file on disk might be a 3D TIFF stack from a single channel at a single timepoint.
Data may also be stored in some proprietary format.
As the size of the dataset grows,
viewing arbitrary slices (in time, channel, z) of these datasets can become cumbersome.

Chunked file formats exist (such as [hdf5](https://support.hdfgroup.org/HDF5/) and [zarr](https://zarr.readthedocs.io/en/stable/)) that store data in a way that makes it easier to retrieve arbitrary subsets of the dataset, but they require either data duplication, or "committing" to a new file standard.

> **Note**: This tutorial is not meant to promote a folder of TIFFs as a "good way" to store large datasets on disk;
> but it is undoubtedly a common scenario in microscopy.
> Chunked formats such as `hdf5` or `zarr` are superior in many ways,
> but they do require the user to either duplicate their data
> or go "all in" and delete the original data after conversion.
> And while `napari` can easily handle something like a `zarr` store,
> it can be a bit more limiting inasmuch as it requires programs that are capable of viewing it (i.e. you can't necessarily just drag it into Fiji ...)

The first part of this tutorial demonstrates how to use [`Dask`](https://docs.dask.org/en/latest/)
and [`dask.delayed`](https://docs.dask.org/en/latest/delayed.html)
(or [`dask_image`](https://github.com/dask/dask-image)) to feed `napari` image data "[lazily](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lazy_evaluation)":
that is, the specific image file corresponding to the requested timepoint/channel
is only read from disk at the moment it is required
(based on the current position of the dimension sliders in `napari`).
Additionally, we will see that *any* function that takes a filepath
and returns a `numpy` array can be used to lazily read image data.
This can be useful if you have a proprietary format that is not immediately recognized by `napari`
(but for which you have at least some way of reading into a `numpy` array)

In some cases, data must be further processed prior to viewing,
such as a deskewing step for images acquired on a stage-scanning light sheet microscope.
Or perhaps you'd like to apply some basic image corrections or ratiometry prior to viewing.
The second part of this tutorial demonstrates the use of the [`dask.array.map_blocks`](https://docs.dask.org/en/latest/array-api.html#dask.array.map_blocks) function
to describe an arbitrary sequence of functions in a declarative manner
that will be performed *on demand* as you explore the data (i.e. move the sliders) in `napari`.

## Using `dask.delayed` to load images

If you have a function that can take a filename and return a `numpy` array,
such as `skimage.io.imread`,
you can create a "lazy" version of that function by calling `dask.delayed` on the function itself.
This *new* function, when handed a filename,
will not actually read the file until explicitly asked with the `compute()` method:

```python
from skimage.io import imread
from dask import delayed

lazy_imread = delayed(imread)
reader = lazy_imread('/path/to/file.tif')  # doesn't actually read the file
array = reader.compute()  # *now* it reads.
```

(If you have an unusual image format,
but you *do* have a python function that returns a `numpy` array,
simply substitute it for `skimage.io.imread` in the example above).

We can create a [Dask array](https://docs.dask.org/en/latest/array.html) of delayed file-readers
for *all* of the files in our multidimensional experiment using the `dask.array.from_delayed` function
and a [`glob`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/glob.html) filename pattern
(*this example assumes that all files are of the same `shape` and `dtype`!*):

```python
from skimage.io import imread
from skimage.io.collection import alphanumeric_key
from dask import delayed
import dask.array as da
from glob import glob

filenames = sorted(glob("/path/to/experiment/*.tif"), key=alphanumeric_key)
# read the first file to get the shape and dtype
# ASSUMES THAT ALL FILES SHARE THE SAME SHAPE/TYPE
sample = imread(filenames[0])

lazy_imread = delayed(imread)  # lazy reader
lazy_arrays = [lazy_imread(fn) for fn in filenames]
dask_arrays = [
    da.from_delayed(delayed_reader, shape=sample.shape, dtype=sample.dtype)
    for delayed_reader in lazy_arrays
]
# Stack into one large dask.array
stack = da.stack(dask_arrays, axis=0)
stack.shape  # (nfiles, nz, ny, nx)

# in jupyter notebook the repr of a dask stack provides a useful visual:
stack
```

![HTML representation of a Dask array as seen in Jupyter notebook. The image is split into two main regions: a table showing the bytes, shape, count and data type attributes of the array and of each chunk, and a visual representation of the shape of the chunks that make up the array (a rectangle of 1200x1) and each individual chunk (a 65*256*256 cube).](../assets/tutorials/dask_repr.png)

*No data has been read from disk yet!*

`napari` is capable of consuming Dask arrays,
so you can simply call `napari.view_image` on this `stack` and behind the scenes,
Dask will take care of reading the data from disk
and handing a `numpy` array to `napari` each time a new timepoint or channel is requested.

```python
import napari

# specify contrast_limits and multiscale=False with big data
# to avoid unnecessary computations
napari.view_image(stack, contrast_limits=[0,2000], multiscale=False)
```

*Note: providing the* `contrast_limits` *and* `multiscale` *arguments prevents* `napari` *from trying to calculate the data min/max, which can take an extremely long time with big data.
See [napari issue #736](https://github.com/napari/napari/issues/736) for further discussion.*

## Make your life easier with `dask-image`

This pattern for creating a `dask.array` from image data
has been previously described in an [excellent blog post](https://blog.dask.org/2019/06/20/load-image-data) by John Kirkham.
It is a common-enough pattern that John created a useful library ([`dask-image`](https://github.com/dask/dask-image))
that does all this for you,
provided your image format can be read by the [`pims`](https://github.com/soft-matter/pims) (Python Image Sequence) reader
(if not, see note above about providing your own reader function with `dask.delayed`).

Using `dask-image`, *all* of the above code can be simplified to 5 lines:

```python
import napari
from dask_image.imread import imread

stack = imread("/path/to/experiment/*.tif")
napari.view_image(stack, contrast_limits=[0,2000], multiscale=False)
```

![napari viewer with image loaded as a dask array showing mCherry-H2B showing chromosome separation during mitosis. Collected on a lattice light sheet microscope.](../assets/tutorials/dask1.webm)

### **Side note regarding higher-dimensional datasets**

In the above example, it would be quite common to have a 5+ dimensional dataset
(e.g. different timepoints *and* channels represented among the 3D TIFF files in a folder).
A standard approach to deal with that sort of thing in `numpy` would be to `reshape` the array after instantiation.
With Dask, reshaping arrays can *sometimes* lead to unexpected read events if you're not careful.

For example:

```python
from dask_image.imread import imread
stack = imread('/path/to/experiment/*.tif')
stack.shape  # -> something like (1200, 64, 256, 280)
stack[0].compute()  # incurs a single file read

# if there were two channels in that folder you might try to do this:
stack = stack.reshape(2, 600, 64, 256, 280)
# but now trying to read just the first timepoint in the first channel:
stack[0, 0].compute()  # incurs 600 read events!
```

We will update this post as best-practices emerge,
but one possible solution to this is to avoid reshaping
Dask arrays altogether, by constructing multiple Dask arrays using `dask-image`, and then using
`da.stack` to combine them:

```python
from dask_image.imread import imread
import dask.array as da

# # instead of this
# stack = imread('/path/to/experiment/*.tif')
# stack = stack.reshape(2, 600, 64, 256, 280)
# stack[0, 0].compute()  # incurs 600 read events!

# do something like this:
file_pattern = "/path/to/experiment/*ch{}*.tif"
channels = [imread(file_pattern.format(i)) for i in range(nchannels)]
stack = da.stack(channels)
stack.shape  # (2, 600, 64, 256, 280)
stack[0, 0].compute()  # incurs a single file read

```

## Processing data with `dask.array.map_blocks`

As previously mentioned,
sometimes it is desirable to process data prior to viewing.
We'll take as an example
a series of TIFF files acquired on a lattice-light-sheet microscope.
A typical workflow might be to deskew, deconvolve, and perhaps crop
or apply some channel registration prior to viewing.

With `dask.array.map_blocks` we can apply any function that accepts a `numpy` array
and returns a modified array to all the images in our `dask.array`.
It will be evaluated lazily, when requested (in this case, by `napari`);
we do not have to wait for it to process the entire dataset.

Here is an example of a script that will take a folder of raw tiff files,
and lazily read, deskew, deconvolve, crop,
and display them, *on demand* as you move the `napari` dimensions sliders around.

```python
import napari
import pycudadecon
from functools import partial
from skimage import io
from dask_image.imread import imread

# load stacks with dask_image, and psf with skimage
stack = imread("/path/to/experiment/*.tif")
psf = io.imread("/path/to/psf.tif")

# prepare some functions that accept a numpy array
# and return a processed array

def last3dims(f):
    # this is just a wrapper because the pycudadecon function
    # expects ndims==3 but our blocks will have ndim==4
    def func(array):
        return f(array[0])[None, ...]
    return func


def crop(array):
    # simple cropping function
    return array[:, 2:, 10:-20, :500]

# https://docs.python.org/3.8/library/functools.html#functools.partial
deskew = last3dims(partial(pycudadecon.deskew_gpu, angle=31.5))
deconv = last3dims(partial(pycudadecon.decon, psf=psf, background=10))
# note: this is done in two steps just as an example...
# in reality pycudadecon.decon also has a deskew argument

# map and chain those functions across all dask blocks
deskewed = stack.map_blocks(deskew, dtype="uint16")
deconvolved = deskewed.map_blocks(deconv, dtype="float32")
cropped = deconvolved.map_blocks(crop, dtype="float32")

# put the resulting dask array into napari.
# (don't forget the contrast limits and multiscale==False !)
v = napari.view_image(
    cropped,
    contrast_limits=[90, 1500],
    multiscale=False,
    ndisplay=3,
    scale=(3, 1, 1),
)

napari.run()
```

Of course, the GUI isn't as responsive as it would be if you had processed the data up front
and loaded the results into RAM and viewed them in `napari` (it's doing a lot of work after all!),
but it's surprisingly usable,
and allows you to preview the result of a relatively complex processing pipeline *on-the-fly*,
for arbitrary timepoints/channels, while storing *only* the raw data on disk.

![napari viewer showing the same dataset as the previous video, demonstrating on-the-fly processing of a dask array with sliding through dimensions still performing reasonably well considering the amount of processing going on as you slice.](../assets/tutorials/dask2.webm)

This workflow is very much patterned after [another great post by John Kirkham, Matthew Rocklin, and Matthew McCormick](https://blog.dask.org/2019/08/09/image-itk)
that describes a similar image processing pipeline using [ITK](https://itk.org/).
`napari` simply sits at the end of this lazy processing chain,
ready to show you the result on demand!

## Further reading

- [Documentation on dask.delayed](https://docs.dask.org/en/latest/delayed.html)
- [Dask working notes on dask-image](https://blog.dask.org/2019/06/20/load-image-data)
- [Dask working notes on image processing with `dask.array.map_blocks`](https://blog.dask.org/2019/08/09/image-itk)
