(napari-contributing)=
# Contributing guide

We welcome your contributions! Here you will find a guide to the contribution
workflow and tips for contributing to napari. Do not hesitate to [contact](contact) us
if you have any queries.

## Contributing workflow

napari development occurs primarily on GitHub. If you are new to GitHub we recommend checking out the detailed [Github Docs](https://docs.github.com/en).

The first step to make changes to napari is to
set up a [napari development installation](dev-installation).

You can then use git to save your changes and open a
[pull-request](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/contributing-to-projects#making-a-pull-request) (PR) via the following steps:

1. Make and save your changes:

Create a new feature branch:
```sh
git checkout main -b your-branch-name
```

`git` will automatically detect changes to a repository.
You can view them with:
```sh
git status
```

Add and commit your changed files:
```sh
git add my-file-or-directory
git commit -m "my message"
```

Each commit you make must have a [GitHub-registered email](https://github.com/settings/emails)
as the `author`. You can read more [here](https://docs.github.com/en/account-and-profile/setting-up-and-managing-your-personal-account-on-github/managing-email-preferences/setting-your-commit-email-address).

To set it, use `git config --global user.email your-address@example.com`.

2. Share your changes:

To push the local changes in your new feature branch to your
[forked](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/contributing-to-projects#forking-a-repository) repository:

```sh
git push -u origin your-branch-name
```

Note we are pushing to the remote named 'origin' above. If you have followed the
[development installation instructions](dev-installation), 'origin' would be the name
of the remote of your forked repository. If you are unsure
of the name of your remotes, you can use the following command to check and
ensure you are pushing to the correct remote:

```sh
git remote -vv
```

You can then make a
[PR](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/contributing-to-projects#making-a-pull-request) to `napari`'s `main` branch.

## napari contribution guides

### Translations

Starting with version 0.4.7 offers the possibility of installing language packs,
enabling the user interface to be displayed in different languages. This means that all
user interface strings need to use the {func}`~napari.utils.translations.trans` helper
function.
See the [translations](translations) guide for more.

### Tests

We use unit tests, integration tests, and functional tests to ensure that
napari works as intended. Writing tests for new code is a critical part of
keeping napari maintainable as it grows.

We have dedicated documentation on [testing](napari-testing) that we recommend you
read as you're working on your first contribution.

### Adding icons

If you want to add a new icon to the app, make the icon in whatever program you
like and add it to `napari/resources/icons/`.  Icons must be in `.svg` format.

Icons are automatically built into a Qt resource file that is imported when
napari is run.  If you have changed the icons and would like to force a rebuild
of the resources, then you can either delete the autogenerated
`napari/resources/_qt_resources*.py` file, or you can set the
`NAPARI_REBUILD_RESOURCES` environmental variable to a truthy value, for
example:

```sh
export NAPARI_REBUILD_RESOURCES=1
```

Icons are typically used inside of one of our `stylesheet.qss` files, with the
`{{ id }}` variable used to expand the current theme name.

```css
QtDeleteButton {
   image: url("theme_{{ id }}:/delete.svg");
}
```

### Performance

Performance related PRs should include a benchmark in order to clearly depict the
use-case that is being optimized for. Ideally PRs that add a new feature should
also include benchmarks to show the new feature is not too slow but this is less vital.
[](napari-benchmarks) provides more information on benchmarking. If you find
poor performance, [profiling](profiling) and [performance monitoring](napari-perfmon) can help
identify the cause and where to optimize.

### Contributing documentation

See [](contributing-docs) for information on how to contribute documentation.
