community/team.md, before:

# About the project and team

napari is a consensus-based community project. Anyone with an interest in the project can join the community, contribute to the project design, and participate in the decision making process. You can learn more about how the project is run by reading our [governance model](https://napari.org/community/governance.html). This page lists our current and emeritus [core developers](https://napari.org/community/governance.html#core-developers). Core developers are community members that have demonstrated a sustained commitment to the project through ongoing contributions and that they can maintain napari with care.

## Current Core Developers

- [Ahmet Can Solak](https://github.com/napari/napari/commits?author=AhmetCanSolak) - [@AhmetCanSolak](https://github.com/AhmetCanSolak)
- [Alister Burt](https://github.com/napari/napari/commits?author=alisterburt) - [@alisterburt](https://github.com/alisterburt)
- [Genevieve Buckley](https://github.com/napari/napari/commits?author=GenevieveBuckley) - [@GenevieveBuckley](https://github.com/GenevieveBuckley)
- [Juan Nunez-Iglesias](https://github.com/napari/napari/commits?author=jni) - [@jni](https://github.com/jni)*
- [Justine Larsen](https://github.com/napari/napari/commits?author=justinelarsen) - [@justinelarsen](https://github.com/justinelarsen)
- [Kevin Yamauchi](https://github.com/napari/napari/commits?author=kevinyamauchi) - [@kevinyamauchi](https://github.com/kevinyamauchi)
- [Kira Evans](https://github.com/napari/napari/commits?author=kne42) - [@kne42](https://github.com/kne42)
- [Loic Royer](https://github.com/napari/napari/commits?author=royerloic) - [@royerloic](https://github.com/royerloic)*
- [Nicholas Sofroniew](https://github.com/napari/napari/commits?author=sofroniewn) - [@sofroniewn](https://github.com/sofroniewn)*
- [Talley Lambert](https://github.com/napari/napari/commits?author=tlambert03) - [@tlambert03](https://github.com/tlambert03)
- [Ziyang Liu](https://github.com/napari/napari/commits?author=ziyangczi) - [@ziyangczi](https://github.com/ziyangczi)

<sub>* on the napari [steering council](https://napari.org/community/governance.html#steering-council).</sub>

## Emeritus Core Developers

- [Shannon Axelrod](https://github.com/napari/napari/commits?author=shanaxel42) - [@shanaxel42](https://github.com/shanaxel42)


## Project history

The napari project began in the spring of 2018. It was born out of the shared need for fast n-dimensional image viewing in Python by project co-founders Loïc Royer, from the Chan Zuckerberg Biohub (CZ Biohub), and Juan Nunez-Iglesias, from Monash University. Since then it has grown rapidly to now also provide a graphical user interface to a plugin ecosystem of image analysis tools for scientists to use in their daily work.

Named after the tiny village of Napari, in the Republic of Kiribati in the Pacifc Ocean, at the geographic midpoint between Loïc's home of San Francisco and Juan’s home of Melbourne, the napari project has, from its inception, been a global community effort.

Early development on the project was led by Kira Evans, first as an intern with Loïc at CZ Biohub, then later as a software engineer at the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative (CZI). Nicholas Sofroniew (CZI) joined in the fall of 2018, accelerating both the organization and management of the growing team, as well as the development of core features.

You can read a full history of the project’s founding and early development in this [blog post](https://ilovesymposia.com/2019/10/24/introducing-napari-a-fast-n-dimensional-image-viewer-in-python/) from Juan.

Over time, napari has grown to over 80 direct contributors. Talley Lambert, from Harvard Medical School, began contributing around the time of Juan's blog post, and has been a critical driver of napari's development ever since. We have core developers located in three continents and three biweekly community calls spread across the day to try to accommodate users and contributors in any time zone.

Read more about napari’s [mission and values](https://napari.org/community/mission_and_values.html), how to get started as a [contributor](https://napari.org/developers/contributing.html) or join us in our [zulip chat](https://napari.zulipchat.com/login/) for a more synchronous conversation. You can also follow us on [twitter](https://twitter.com/napari_imaging).

## Funding and support

The napari project and community have been generously supported by the [CZI Science Imaging Program](https://chanzuckerberg.com/science/programs-resources/imaging/). 

![CZI logo](https://chanzuckerberg.com/wp-content/themes/czi/img/logo.svg)

- Since late 2018, Juan Nunez-Iglesias has been supported by a CZI Imaging Software Fellowship.
- The CZI Imaging Technology Team, under the leadership of Nicholas Sofroniew and engineering management of Justine Larsen, has been making direct engineering and design contributions to improve and expand napari.
- The CZI Imaging Tech Team has supported [Quansight Labs](https://www.quansight.com/labs) and independent contractors to improve and expand napari.
- The CZI Imaging Tech Team, through an effort led by Justin Kiggins, has created [napari-hub.org](https://www.napari-hub.org/), a site to make discovering and sharing napari plugins easier.
- CZI has launched a [grant program](https://chanzuckerberg.com/rfa/napari-plugin-accelerator-grants/) to help accelerate the napari plugin developer community.

If you or your organization are interested in also supporting the napari project, please email the napari steering council at `napari-steering-council@googlegroups.com`.

Commit message:

update doc sources autogenerated from napari/napari@c3a0892820ed82e260db99b24bd695f2452ed2d9

community/team.md, after:

# About the project and team

napari is a consensus-based community project. Anyone with an interest in the project can join the community, contribute to the project design, and participate in the decision making process. You can learn more about how the project is run by reading our [governance model](https://napari.org/community/governance.html). This page lists our current and emeritus [core developers](https://napari.org/community/governance.html#core-developers). Core developers are community members that have demonstrated a sustained commitment to the project through ongoing contributions and that they can maintain napari with care.

## Meeting schedule

We hold regular meetings, the timings of which are available on our [public calendar](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=c_35r93ec6vtp8smhm7dv5uot0v4%40group.calendar.google.com). 

<iframe src="https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=c_35r93ec6vtp8smhm7dv5uot0v4%40group.calendar.google.com" style="border: 0" width="800" height="600" frameborder="0" scrolling="no"></iframe>

If you are using napari or interested in how napari could be used in your work, please join one of our regular community meetings. If you're interested in diving deep on particular topic you could join the closest working group meeting. We currently have four working groups 'Bundled Application', 'Plugins', 'Architecture', and 'Documentation' that meet on a semi-regular candence. You can learn more about our working groups and community meetings in the corresponding discussion streams on the [napari Zulip](https://napari.zulipchat.com/login/).

## Current Core Developers

- [Ahmet Can Solak](https://github.com/napari/napari/commits?author=AhmetCanSolak) - [@AhmetCanSolak](https://github.com/AhmetCanSolak)
- [Alister Burt](https://github.com/napari/napari/commits?author=alisterburt) - [@alisterburt](https://github.com/alisterburt)
- [Genevieve Buckley](https://github.com/napari/napari/commits?author=GenevieveBuckley) - [@GenevieveBuckley](https://github.com/GenevieveBuckley)
- [Juan Nunez-Iglesias](https://github.com/napari/napari/commits?author=jni) - [@jni](https://github.com/jni)*
- [Justine Larsen](https://github.com/napari/napari/commits?author=justinelarsen) - [@justinelarsen](https://github.com/justinelarsen)
- [Kevin Yamauchi](https://github.com/napari/napari/commits?author=kevinyamauchi) - [@kevinyamauchi](https://github.com/kevinyamauchi)
- [Kira Evans](https://github.com/napari/napari/commits?author=kne42) - [@kne42](https://github.com/kne42)
- [Loic Royer](https://github.com/napari/napari/commits?author=royerloic) - [@royerloic](https://github.com/royerloic)*
- [Nicholas Sofroniew](https://github.com/napari/napari/commits?author=sofroniewn) - [@sofroniewn](https://github.com/sofroniewn)*
- [Talley Lambert](https://github.com/napari/napari/commits?author=tlambert03) - [@tlambert03](https://github.com/tlambert03)
- [Ziyang Liu](https://github.com/napari/napari/commits?author=ziyangczi) - [@ziyangczi](https://github.com/ziyangczi)

<sub>* on the napari [steering council](https://napari.org/community/governance.html#steering-council).</sub>

## Emeritus Core Developers

- [Shannon Axelrod](https://github.com/napari/napari/commits?author=shanaxel42) - [@shanaxel42](https://github.com/shanaxel42)


## Project history

The napari project began in the spring of 2018. It was born out of the shared need for fast n-dimensional image viewing in Python by project co-founders Loïc Royer, from the Chan Zuckerberg Biohub (CZ Biohub), and Juan Nunez-Iglesias, from Monash University. Since then it has grown rapidly to now also provide a graphical user interface to a plugin ecosystem of image analysis tools for scientists to use in their daily work.

Named after the tiny village of Napari, in the Republic of Kiribati in the Pacifc Ocean, at the geographic midpoint between Loïc's home of San Francisco and Juan’s home of Melbourne, the napari project has, from its inception, been a global community effort.

Early development on the project was led by Kira Evans, first as an intern with Loïc at CZ Biohub, then later as a software engineer at the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative (CZI). Nicholas Sofroniew (CZI) joined in the fall of 2018, accelerating both the organization and management of the growing team, as well as the development of core features.

You can read a full history of the project’s founding and early development in this [blog post](https://ilovesymposia.com/2019/10/24/introducing-napari-a-fast-n-dimensional-image-viewer-in-python/) from Juan.

Over time, napari has grown to over 80 direct contributors. Talley Lambert, from Harvard Medical School, began contributing around the time of Juan's blog post, and has been a critical driver of napari's development ever since. We have core developers located in three continents and three biweekly community calls spread across the day to try to accommodate users and contributors in any time zone.

Read more about napari’s [mission and values](https://napari.org/community/mission_and_values.html), how to get started as a [contributor](https://napari.org/developers/contributing.html) or join us in our [zulip chat](https://napari.zulipchat.com/login/) for a more synchronous conversation. You can also follow us on [twitter](https://twitter.com/napari_imaging).

## Funding and support

The napari project and community have been generously supported by the [CZI Science Imaging Program](https://chanzuckerberg.com/science/programs-resources/imaging/). 

![CZI logo](https://chanzuckerberg.com/wp-content/themes/czi/img/logo.svg)

- Since late 2018, Juan Nunez-Iglesias has been supported by a CZI Imaging Software Fellowship.
- The CZI Imaging Technology Team, under the leadership of Nicholas Sofroniew and engineering management of Justine Larsen, has been making direct engineering and design contributions to improve and expand napari.
- The CZI Imaging Tech Team has supported [Quansight Labs](https://www.quansight.com/labs) and independent contractors to improve and expand napari.
- The CZI Imaging Tech Team, through an effort led by Justin Kiggins, has created [napari-hub.org](https://www.napari-hub.org/), a site to make discovering and sharing napari plugins easier.
- CZI has launched a [grant program](https://chanzuckerberg.com/rfa/napari-plugin-accelerator-grants/) to help accelerate the napari plugin developer community.

If you or your organization are interested in also supporting the napari project, please email the napari steering council at `napari-steering-council@googlegroups.com`.
