dev/_sources/gallery/image_custom_kernel.rst, before:


.. DO NOT EDIT.
.. THIS FILE WAS AUTOMATICALLY GENERATED BY SPHINX-GALLERY.
.. TO MAKE CHANGES, EDIT THE SOURCE PYTHON FILE:
.. "gallery/image_custom_kernel.py"
.. LINE NUMBERS ARE GIVEN BELOW.

.. only:: html

    .. note::
        :class: sphx-glr-download-link-note

        :ref:`Go to the end <sphx_glr_download_gallery_image_custom_kernel.py>`
        to download the full example code.

.. rst-class:: sphx-glr-example-title

.. _sphx_glr_gallery_image_custom_kernel.py:


Custom image interpolation kernels
==================================

When interpolation is set to 'custom', the convolution kernel provided by
`custom_interpolation_kernel_2d` is used to convolve the image on the gpu.
In this example, we use custom gaussian kernels of arbitrary size, a sharpening
kernel and a ridge detection kernel.

Under the hood, this works by by sampling the image texture with `linear`
interpolation in a regular grid (of size = of the kernel) around each fragment,
and then using the weights in the kernel to add up the final fragment value.

.. tags:: gui, visualization-nD

.. GENERATED FROM PYTHON SOURCE LINES 17-83



.. image-sg:: /gallery/images/sphx_glr_image_custom_kernel_001.png
   :alt: image custom kernel
   :srcset: /gallery/images/sphx_glr_image_custom_kernel_001.png
   :class: sphx-glr-single-img





.. code-block:: Python


    import numpy as np
    from magicgui import magicgui
    from scipy.signal.windows import gaussian
    from skimage import data

    import napari

    viewer = napari.view_image(data.astronaut(), rgb=True, interpolation='custom')


    def gaussian_kernel(size, sigma):
        window = gaussian(size, sigma)
        kernel = np.outer(window, window)
        return kernel / kernel.sum()


    def sharpen_kernel():
        return np.array([
            [ 0, -1,  0],
            [-1,  5, -1],
            [ 0, -1,  0],
        ])


    def ridge_detection_kernel():
        return np.array([
            [-1, -1, -1],
            [-1,  9, -1],
            [-1, -1, -1],
        ])


    @magicgui(
        auto_call=True,
        kernel_size={'widget_type': 'Slider', 'min': 1, 'max': 20},
        sigma={'widget_type': 'FloatSlider', 'min': 0.1, 'max': 5, 'step': 0.1},
        kernel_type={'choices': ['none', 'gaussian', 'sharpen', 'ridge_detection']},
    )
    def gpu_kernel(image: napari.layers.Image, kernel_type: str = 'gaussian', kernel_size: int = 5, sigma: float = 1):
        if kernel_type == 'none':
            image.interpolation2d = 'linear'
        else:
            image.interpolation2d = 'custom'

        if kernel_type == 'gaussian':
            gpu_kernel.kernel_size.show()
            gpu_kernel.sigma.show()
        else:
            gpu_kernel.kernel_size.hide()
            gpu_kernel.sigma.hide()

        if kernel_type == 'gaussian':
            image.custom_interpolation_kernel_2d = gaussian_kernel(kernel_size, sigma)
        elif kernel_type == 'sharpen':
            image.custom_interpolation_kernel_2d = sharpen_kernel()
        elif kernel_type == 'ridge_detection':
            image.custom_interpolation_kernel_2d = ridge_detection_kernel()


    viewer.window.add_dock_widget(gpu_kernel)
    gpu_kernel()


    if __name__ == '__main__':
        napari.run()


.. _sphx_glr_download_gallery_image_custom_kernel.py:

.. only:: html

  .. container:: sphx-glr-footer sphx-glr-footer-example

    .. container:: sphx-glr-download sphx-glr-download-jupyter

      :download:`Download Jupyter notebook: image_custom_kernel.ipynb <image_custom_kernel.ipynb>`

    .. container:: sphx-glr-download sphx-glr-download-python

      :download:`Download Python source code: image_custom_kernel.py <image_custom_kernel.py>`


.. only:: html

 .. rst-class:: sphx-glr-signature

    `Gallery generated by Sphinx-Gallery <https://sphinx-gallery.github.io>`_

Commit message:

deploy: napari/docs@1dd9162b7c8624127cbe249e08573e8de7b5cc30

dev/_sources/gallery/image_custom_kernel.rst, after:


.. DO NOT EDIT.
.. THIS FILE WAS AUTOMATICALLY GENERATED BY SPHINX-GALLERY.
.. TO MAKE CHANGES, EDIT THE SOURCE PYTHON FILE:
.. "gallery/image_custom_kernel.py"
.. LINE NUMBERS ARE GIVEN BELOW.

.. only:: html

    .. note::
        :class: sphx-glr-download-link-note

        :ref:`Go to the end <sphx_glr_download_gallery_image_custom_kernel.py>`
        to download the full example code.

.. rst-class:: sphx-glr-example-title

.. _sphx_glr_gallery_image_custom_kernel.py:


Custom image interpolation kernels
==================================

When interpolation is set to 'custom', the convolution kernel provided by
`custom_interpolation_kernel_2d` is used to convolve the image on the gpu.
In this example, we use custom gaussian kernels of arbitrary size, a sharpening
kernel and a ridge detection kernel.

Under the hood, this works by by sampling the image texture with `linear`
interpolation in a regular grid (of size = of the kernel) around each fragment,
and then using the weights in the kernel to add up the final fragment value.

.. tags:: gui, visualization-nD

.. GENERATED FROM PYTHON SOURCE LINES 17-83



.. image-sg:: /gallery/images/sphx_glr_image_custom_kernel_001.png
   :alt: image custom kernel
   :srcset: /gallery/images/sphx_glr_image_custom_kernel_001.png
   :class: sphx-glr-single-img


.. rst-class:: sphx-glr-script-out

 .. code-block:: none

    /opt/hostedtoolcache/Python/3.10.14/x64/lib/python3.10/site-packages/napari/view_layers.py:161: FutureWarning: Argument 'interpolation' is deprecated, please use 'interpolation2d' instead. The argument 'interpolation' was deprecated in 0.4.17 and it will be removed in 0.6.0.
      added = method(*args, **kwargs)






|

.. code-block:: Python


    import numpy as np
    from magicgui import magicgui
    from scipy.signal.windows import gaussian
    from skimage import data

    import napari

    viewer = napari.view_image(data.astronaut(), rgb=True, interpolation='custom')


    def gaussian_kernel(size, sigma):
        window = gaussian(size, sigma)
        kernel = np.outer(window, window)
        return kernel / kernel.sum()


    def sharpen_kernel():
        return np.array([
            [ 0, -1,  0],
            [-1,  5, -1],
            [ 0, -1,  0],
        ])


    def ridge_detection_kernel():
        return np.array([
            [-1, -1, -1],
            [-1,  9, -1],
            [-1, -1, -1],
        ])


    @magicgui(
        auto_call=True,
        kernel_size={'widget_type': 'Slider', 'min': 1, 'max': 20},
        sigma={'widget_type': 'FloatSlider', 'min': 0.1, 'max': 5, 'step': 0.1},
        kernel_type={'choices': ['none', 'gaussian', 'sharpen', 'ridge_detection']},
    )
    def gpu_kernel(image: napari.layers.Image, kernel_type: str = 'gaussian', kernel_size: int = 5, sigma: float = 1):
        if kernel_type == 'none':
            image.interpolation2d = 'linear'
        else:
            image.interpolation2d = 'custom'

        if kernel_type == 'gaussian':
            gpu_kernel.kernel_size.show()
            gpu_kernel.sigma.show()
        else:
            gpu_kernel.kernel_size.hide()
            gpu_kernel.sigma.hide()

        if kernel_type == 'gaussian':
            image.custom_interpolation_kernel_2d = gaussian_kernel(kernel_size, sigma)
        elif kernel_type == 'sharpen':
            image.custom_interpolation_kernel_2d = sharpen_kernel()
        elif kernel_type == 'ridge_detection':
            image.custom_interpolation_kernel_2d = ridge_detection_kernel()


    viewer.window.add_dock_widget(gpu_kernel)
    gpu_kernel()


    if __name__ == '__main__':
        napari.run()


.. _sphx_glr_download_gallery_image_custom_kernel.py:

.. only:: html

  .. container:: sphx-glr-footer sphx-glr-footer-example

    .. container:: sphx-glr-download sphx-glr-download-jupyter

      :download:`Download Jupyter notebook: image_custom_kernel.ipynb <image_custom_kernel.ipynb>`

    .. container:: sphx-glr-download sphx-glr-download-python

      :download:`Download Python source code: image_custom_kernel.py <image_custom_kernel.py>`


.. only:: html

 .. rst-class:: sphx-glr-signature

    `Gallery generated by Sphinx-Gallery <https://sphinx-gallery.github.io>`_
