plugins/stable/hook_specifications.md, before:

(hook-specifications-reference)=

# napari hook specification reference

```{admonition} Introducing npe2
:class: tip
We introduced a new plugin engine in December 2021. The new library [`npe2`][npe2]
is a re-imagining of how napari interacts with plugins. Plugins targeting
`napari-plugin-engine` will continue to work, but we recommend migrating to
`npe2` as soon as possible. See the [](npe2-migration-guide).

To learn more about the specification see the [](npe2-manifest-spec).
```

```{eval-rst}
.. automodule:: napari.plugins.hook_specifications
  :noindex:

.. currentmodule:: napari.plugins.hook_specifications
```

## IO hooks

```{eval-rst}
.. autofunction:: napari_provide_sample_data
.. autofunction:: napari_get_reader
.. autofunction:: napari_get_writer
```

(write-single-layer-hookspecs)=

### Single Layers IO

The following hook specifications will be called when a user saves a single
layer in napari, and should save the layer to the requested format and return
the save path if the data are successfully written. Otherwise, if nothing was saved, return `None`.
They each accept a `path`.
It is up to plugins to inspect and obey the extension of the path (and return
`False` if it is an unsupported extension). The `data` argument will come
from `Layer.data`, and a `meta` dict that will correspond to the layer's
{meth}`~napari.layers.base.base.Layer._get_state` method.

```{eval-rst}
.. autofunction:: napari_write_image
.. autofunction:: napari_write_labels
.. autofunction:: napari_write_points
.. autofunction:: napari_write_shapes
.. autofunction:: napari_write_surface
.. autofunction:: napari_write_vectors
```

## Analysis hooks

```{eval-rst}
.. autofunction:: napari_experimental_provide_function
```

## GUI hooks

```{eval-rst}
.. autofunction:: napari_experimental_provide_theme
.. autofunction:: napari_experimental_provide_dock_widget
```

[npe2]: https://github.com/napari/npe2

Commit message:

update doc sources autogenerated from napari/napari@0b83ac921445bcbfb059687f56155fd879845d1d

plugins/stable/hook_specifications.md, after:

(hook-specifications-reference)=

# napari hook specification reference

```{admonition} Introducing npe2
:class: tip
We introduced a new plugin engine in December 2021. The new library [`npe2`][npe2]
is a re-imagining of how napari interacts with plugins. Plugins targeting
`napari-plugin-engine` will continue to work, but we recommend migrating to
`npe2` eventually. See the [](npe2-migration-guide).

To learn more about the specification see the [](npe2-manifest-spec).

The content below describes the original [`napari-plugin-engine`](https://github.com/napari/napari-plugin-engine).
```

```{eval-rst}
.. automodule:: napari.plugins.hook_specifications
  :noindex:

.. currentmodule:: napari.plugins.hook_specifications
```

## IO hooks

```{eval-rst}
.. autofunction:: napari_provide_sample_data
.. autofunction:: napari_get_reader
.. autofunction:: napari_get_writer
```

(write-single-layer-hookspecs)=

### Single Layers IO

The following hook specifications will be called when a user saves a single
layer in napari, and should save the layer to the requested format and return
the save path if the data are successfully written. Otherwise, if nothing was saved, return `None`.
They each accept a `path`.
It is up to plugins to inspect and obey the extension of the path (and return
`False` if it is an unsupported extension). The `data` argument will come
from `Layer.data`, and a `meta` dict that will correspond to the layer's
{meth}`~napari.layers.base.base.Layer._get_state` method.

```{eval-rst}
.. autofunction:: napari_write_image
.. autofunction:: napari_write_labels
.. autofunction:: napari_write_points
.. autofunction:: napari_write_shapes
.. autofunction:: napari_write_surface
.. autofunction:: napari_write_vectors
```

## Analysis hooks

```{eval-rst}
.. autofunction:: napari_experimental_provide_function
```

## GUI hooks

```{eval-rst}
.. autofunction:: napari_experimental_provide_theme
.. autofunction:: napari_experimental_provide_dock_widget
```

[npe2]: https://github.com/napari/npe2
