plugins/stable/npe2_manifest_specification.md, before:

(npe2-manifest-spec)=

# npe2 manifest specification

```{admonition} Backward compatibility
:class: tip
We introduced a new plugin engine in December 2021. The new library [`npe2`][npe2]
is a re-imagining of how napari interacts with plugins. Plugins targeting
`napari-plugin-engine` will continue to work, but we recommend migrating to
`npe2` as soon as possible.  See the [](npe2-migration-guide).
```

The **plugin manifest** is a specially formatted text file declaring the
functionality of a [npe2][] plugin. A **plugin** is a python package that
contains the manifest together with a suitable _[entry point group][epg]_ in
the package metadata.

Manifest files may be [json][], [yaml][], or [toml][] files conforming to the
manifest schema. The **schema** defines what to expect in a manifest by
defining the fields and their data types. These fields and their meanings are
described below.

A **plugin engine** is used to discover plugins, provide utilities for
querying and manipulating plugins, and for exposing plugin-backed
functionality to _napari_. **Discovery** is the process that finds plugins,
parses the manifests and indexes them for later use. The [npe2][] library
manages these responsibilities.

## Configuring a python package to use a plugin manifest

### 1. Add package metadata for locating the manifest

The manifest file should be specified in the plugin's `setup.cfg` or
`setup.py` file using the _[entry point group][epg]_: `napari.manifest`. For
example, this would be the section for a plugin `npe2-tester` with
`napari.yaml` as the manifest file:

```cfg
[options.entry_points]
napari.manifest =
    npe2-tester = npe2_tester:napari.yaml
```

The manifest file is specified relative to the submodule root path.
So for the example it will be loaded from: `<path/to/npe2-tester>/napari.yaml`.

### 2. Include the manifest in the package distribution

The manifest file needs to be included as _[package data][pd]_ in
distributable forms for the package. For example:

```toml
[metadata]
...
include_package_data=True

[options.package_data]
npe2_tester =
    napari.yaml
```

## Manifest schema

The plugin manifest file is a [json][], [yaml][], or [toml][] conforming to
a schema. The `npe2` package includes a command-line tool that can be used
to validate a schema:

```
pip install npe2
npe2 validate my_plugin_manifest.yml
```

The manifest file's fields are described in detail below. The manifest file's
overall structure can be viewed as a hierarchy:

```
<top-level properties>
contributions:
  commands:     <list of commands>
  readers:      <list of readers>
  writers:      <list of writers>
  sample_data:  <list of sample data providers>
  widgets:      <list of widget providers>
  themes:       <list of themes>
```

Readers, writers, sample data providers and widget providers refer to callable
python functions that a plugin defines. Each callable is identified with an
entry in the list of `commands` via a unique id. For more see {ref}`Commands`
below.

```{note}
Python package metadata (`setup.py` or `setup.cfg`) may be used to populate
some internal properties of the plugin manifest. These include the authors,
description, and version.
```

(top-level-props)=

## Top-level properties

### Required

- **name** The name of the plugin. Example: `napari-svg`. Should be a
  [PEP-8]-compatible package name. If missing, this is populated from the
  python package [name][setup-name].

### Optional

- **engine**: A SemVer compatible version string matching the versions of the
  plugin engine that the extension is compatible with. Example: "0.1.0".
  See [][compatibility] for details.
- **display_name**: User-facing text to display as the name of this plugin.
  Example: `napari SVG`. Must be 3-40 characters long, containing
  printable word characters, and must not begin or end with an underscore,
  white space, or non-word character.
- **entry_point**: The module containing the `activate()` function. Example:
  `foo.bar.baz`. This should be a fully qualified module string.

```{admonition} activation and deactivation
An `activate()` function can be used to perform one-time initialization for a
plugin.  Similarly, a `deactivate()` function can be used to perform tear-down
on deactivation.  These must be defined relative to the `entry_point`.
```

(compatibility)=

### Compatibility

A goal of `npe2` was to make it possible to add or change the plugin interface
without breaking existing plugins. This is achieved by defining an
**engine version**. When we want to change the plugin interface, we increment
this number to indicate there is something new. New plugins can opt-in to the
new behavior by declaring compatibility with that version.

When authoring a plugin, you will need to describe what is the plugin's
compatibility with `npe2`. This can be done via the `engine` field in the
plugin manifest (see {ref}`top-level-props`).

You can use the `engine` field to makes sure the plugin only gets installed
for clients that use the plugin specification you depend on.

For example, imagine you develop your plugin using the `0.1.0` engine
specification. A few months of development go by and a new API is introduced
to the plugin engine defining a new _engine version_, `0.2.0`. You add that
new API and update your plugin's manifest file accordingly.

Users running older versions of napari will not have the new API. Their plugin
engine will inspect the _engine version_ declared by your plugin and correctly
prevent your plugin from being used. When those users upgrade their napari
installation, they'll be able to take advantage of the new functionality you
added.

(commands)=

## Commands

**command** is a python function associated with an id. The **id** is
a unique identifier to which other contributions, like readers, can refer.

When a contribution like a reader refers to a command, it gives the command
meaning. The command will be expected to conform to a specific _calling
convention_. The **calling convention** is described by the argument and return
types of the associated callable, as well as conventions regarding it's
behavior.

### Required fields

- **id** An identifier used to reference this command within this plugin.
- **title** A description of the command. This might be used, for example,
  when searching in a command palette. Examples: "Generate lily sample",
  "Read tiff image", "Open gaussian blur widget".

### Optional fields

- **python_name** Fully qualified name to callable python object implementing
  this command. This usually takes the form of
  `{obj.__module__}:{obj.__qualname__}` (e.g.
  `my_package.a_module:some_function`). For a command to be useful, this
  field must be specified. If it isn't specified here it should be done
  dynamically inside the plugin's 'activate()' function. _Must_ be populated
  before being invoked at runtime.

### Example

```yaml
name: my-plugin
contribution:
  commands:
    - id: my-plugin.publish_paper
      title: Do experiments, analysis, write paper, and submit
      python_name: my_plugin:publish_func
```

````{admonition} Dynamic command registration

Commands can be registered dynamically by the plugin's `activate()` function.
This is purely an alternative to listing `python_name` in the manifest.

For example,

```python
# inside my_plugin/__init__.py
from npe2 import PluginContext
def activate(context: PluginContext):
    @context.register_command("my_plugin.hello_world")
    def _hello():
        ...

    context.register_command("my_plugin.another_command", lambda: print("yo!"))
```

The `activate()` function is called when the plugin is loaded. It is found in
the `entry_point` specified in the plugin manifest.
````

## Readers

### Required fields

- **command** Identifier of the _command_ to execute.
- **filename_patterns** List of filename patterns (for fnmatch) that this
  reader can accept. Reader will be tried only if `fnmatch(filename, pattern) == True`.

### Optional fields

- **accepts_directories** If true, the reader will accept paths to directories
  for reading data.

### Example

```yaml
name: my-reader
contribution:
  commands:
    - id: my-reader.read_npy_image
      title: Open an npy file as an image
      python_name: my_reader.load_as_image
  readers:
    - command: my-reader.read_npy_image
      accepts_directories: false
      filename_patterns: ["*.npy"]
```

### Calling convention

```python
def get_reader(path:str)->Optional[Callable[[str],List[LayerData]]]:
  ...
  return reader

def reader(path: str) -> List[LayerData]:
    ...
```

```{note}
The reader command is compatible with functions used for the `napari_get_reader`
[hook specification][get-reader-hook] used by plugins based on the
`napari-plugin-engine`. See the [](npe2-migration-guide) for more details.
```

**Parameters**

path(str)
: Path to file, directory, or resource (like a url).

**Return**

layer_data(list of LayerData)
: Each `LayerData` element is a tuple of `(data,meta,layer_type)`.

## Writers

### Required fields

- **command** Identifier of the _command_ providing the writer.
- **layer_types** List of layer type constraints. These determine what
  combinations of layers this writer handles.

### Optional fields

- **display_name** Brief text used to describe this writer when presented.
  Empty by default. When present this is presented along side the plugin name
  and may be used to distinguish the kind of writer for the user. E.g. "lossy"
  or "lossless".
- **filename_extensions** List of filename extensions compatible with this
  writer. The first entry is used as the default if necessary. Empty by default.
  When empty, any filename extension is accepted.

### Examples

**Example**

Single-layer writer

```yaml
name: napari
contributions:
  commands:
    - id: napari.write_points
      python_name: napari.plugins._builtins:napari_write_points
      title: Save points layer to csv
  writers:
    - command: napari.write_points
      filename_extensions: [".csv"]
      layer_types: ["points"]
```

**Example**

Multi-layer writer

```yaml
name: napari-svg
contributions:
  commands:
    - id: napari-svg.svg_writer
      python_name: napari-svg.hook_implementations:writer
      title: Save layers as SVG
  writers:
    - command: napari_svg.svg_writer
      layer_types: ["image*", "labels*", "points*", "shapes*", "vectors*"]
      filename_extensions: [".svg"]
```

### Layer type constraints

Given a set of layers, compatible writer plugins are selected based their
_layer type constraints_.

A writer plugin can declare that it will write between _m_ and _n_ layers of a
specific type where _0≤m≤n_.

For example:

```
    image      Write exactly 1 image layer.
    image?     Write 0 or 1 image layers.
    image+     Write 1 or more image layers.
    image*     Write 0 or more image layers.
    image{k}   Write exactly k image layers.
    image{m,n} Write between m and n layers (inclusive range). Must have m<=n.
```

When a type is not present in the list of constraints, that corresponds to a
writer that is not compatible with that type. For example, a writer declaring:

```
    layer_types=["image+", "points*"]
```

would not be selected when trying to write an `image` and a `vector` layer
because the above only works for cases with 0 `vector` layers.

Note that just because a writer declares compatibility with a layer type does
not mean it actually writes that type. In the example above, the writer might
accept a set of layers containing `image`s and `point`s, but the write command
might just ignore the `point` layers. The writer must return `None` for
unwritten layers.

### Calling convention

Currently, two calling conventions are supported for writers: single-layer and
multi-layer writers. When at most one layer can be matched by a writer, it
must use the single-layer convention. Otherwise, the multi-layer convention
must be used.

#### multi-layer writer

```python
def writer_function(
    path: str, layer_data: List[LayerData]
) -> List[str]:
    ...
```

**Parameters**

path(str)
: Path to file, directory, or resource (like a url).

layer_data(list of LayerData)
: Each `LayerData` element is a tuple of `(data,meta,layer_type)`.

**Return**

Returns a list of paths that were successfully written.

#### single-layer writer

```python
def writer_function(
    path: str, data, meta
) -> Optional[str]:
    ...
```

**Parameters**

path(str)
: Path to file, directory, or resource (like a url).

data(array or list of array) : Layer data. Can be N dimensional. If an image
and meta[‘rgb’] is True then the data should be interpreted as RGB or RGBA. If
meta[‘multiscale’] is True, then the data should be interpreted as a
multiscale image.

meta(dict)
: layer attributes.

**Return**

If data is successfully written, return the path that was written. Otherwise,
if nothing was done, return None.

## Sample Data

There are two ways of specifying sample data.

1. As a **sample data generator**, a function that returns layer data.
2. As a **sample data uri**, a `uri` that should be read using a `reader`
   plugin.

### Required fields

_sample data generator_

- **command** Identifier of a command that returns a layer data tuple.
- **display_name** String to show in the GUI when referring to this sample.
- **key** A key to identify this sample. Must be unique across the samples
  provided by a single plugin.

_sample data uri_

- **uri** Path or URL to a data resource.
- **display_name** String to show in the GUI when referring to this sample.
- **key** A key to identify this sample. Must be unique across the samples
  provided by a single plugin.

### Optional fields

_sample data uri_

- **reader_plugin** Name of plugin to use to open the `uri`.

### Examples

**Example**

Sample data generator

```yaml
name: napari
contributions:
  commands:
    - id: napari.data.astronaut
      title: Generate astronaut sample
      python_name: napari.plugins._skimage_data:astronaut
  sample_data:
    - display_name: Astronaut (RGB)
      key: astronaut
      command: napari.data.astronaut
```

**Example**

Sample data uri

```yaml
name: my-sample
contributions:
  sample_data:
    - display_name: Tabueran Kiribati
      key: napari
      uri: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Napari#/media/File:Tabuaeran_Kiribati.jpg
```

### Calling convention

_sample data generator_

```python
def sample_data_generator()->List[LayerData]:
  ...
```

## Widgets

```{note}
The `napari_experimental_provide_dock_widget` and
`napari_experimental_provide_function` hook implementations may be bound as the
callable for Widget contributions.  `napari_experimental_provide_function`
should use `autogenerate: true`.  See more details below.
```

### Required fields

- **command** Identifier of a command that returns a Widget instance. The
  `python_name` of the command must be populated before being invoked.
- **display_name** User-facing name to use for the widget in, for example,
  menu items.

### Optional fields

- **autogenerate** If True, the widget will be automatically generated with
  [magicgui] using the type-signature of the associated command.

### Examples

```yaml
name: napari-animation
contributions:
  commands:
    - id: napari-animation.AnimationWidget
      python_name: napari_animation._hookimpls:AnimationWidget
      title: Open animation wizard
  widgets:
    - command: napari-animation.AnimationWidget
      display_name: Wizard
```

### Calling Convention

```python

# Bind the constructor as the callable:
# e.g. python_name: my-plugin.MyWidget
class MyWidget(QWidget):
  ...

# Bind the function as the callable:
# e.g. python_name: my_typed_function
@magic_factory
def my_typed_function(...):
  ...

# Use `autogenerate: true` for the Widget and bind the function as the callable:
# e.g. python_name: my_other_function
def my_other_function(image : ImageData) -> LayerDataTuple:
    # process the image
    result = -image
    # return it + some layer properties
    return result, {'colormap':'turbo'}
```

## Themes

### Required fields

- **label** Label of the color theme as shown in the UI.
- **id** Id of the color theme as used in the user settings.
- **type** "dark" or "light"
- **colors**
  - **canvas**
  - **console**
  - **background**
  - **foreground**
  - **primary**
  - **secondary**
  - **highlight**
  - **text**
  - **icon**
  - **warning**
  - **current**

### Example

```yaml
themes:
  - label: "Monokai"
    id: "monokai"
    type: "dark"
    colors:
      canvas: "#000000"
      console: "#000000"
      background: "#272822"
      foreground: "#75715e"
      primary: "#cfcfc2"
      secondary: "#f8f8f2"
      highlight: "#e6db74"
      text: "#a1ef34"
      warning: "#f92672"
      current: "#66d9ef"
```

[epg]: https://packaging.python.org/specifications/entry-points/
[pd]: https://setuptools.pypa.io/en/latest/userguide/datafiles.html
[npe2]: https://github.com/tlambert03/npe2
[json]: https://www.json.org/
[yaml]: https://yaml.org/
[toml]: https://toml.io/
[pydantic]: https://pydantic-docs.helpmanual.io/
[pluginmanifest]: https://github.com/tlambert03/npe2/blob/main/npe2/manifest/schema.py
[pep-8]: https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/
[setup-name]: https://packaging.python.org/guides/distributing-packages-using-setuptools/#name
[setup-version]: https://packaging.python.org/guides/distributing-packages-using-setuptools/#version
[setup-desc]: https://packaging.python.org/guides/distributing-packages-using-setuptools/#description
[setup-lic]: https://packaging.python.org/guides/distributing-packages-using-setuptools/#license
[setup-classifier]: https://packaging.python.org/guides/distributing-packages-using-setuptools/#classifiers
[spdx]: https://spdx.org/licenses/
[get-reader-hook]: https://napari.org/plugins/stable/hook_specifications.html#napari.plugins.hook_specifications.napari_get_reader
[get-writer-hook]: https://napari.org/plugins/stable/hook_specifications.html#napari.plugins.hook_specifications.napari_get_writer
[write-image-hook]: https://napari.org/plugins/stable/hook_specifications.html#napari.plugins.hook_specifications.napari_write_image
[magicgui]: https://napari.org/magicgui/

Commit message:

update doc sources autogenerated from napari/napari@0b83ac921445bcbfb059687f56155fd879845d1d

plugins/stable/npe2_manifest_specification.md, after:

(npe2-manifest-spec)=

# npe2 manifest specification

```{warning}
This guide is still a work in progress.

There are inaccuracies and mistakes. If you notice any, feel free to submit
issues to the [napari github repository](https://github.com/napari/napari).
```

```{admonition} Backward compatibility
:class: tip
We introduced a new plugin engine in December 2021. The new library [`npe2`][npe2]
is a re-imagining of how napari interacts with plugins. Plugins targeting
`napari-plugin-engine` will continue to work, but we recommend migrating to
`npe2` eventually.  See the [](npe2-migration-guide).
```

The **plugin manifest** is a specially formatted text file declaring the
functionality of a [npe2][] plugin. A **plugin** is a python package that
contains the manifest together with a suitable _[entry point group][epg]_ in
the package metadata.

Manifest files may be [json][], [yaml][], or [toml][] files conforming to the
manifest schema. The **schema** defines what to expect in a manifest by
defining the fields and their data types. These fields and their meanings are
described below.

A **plugin engine** is used to discover plugins, provide utilities for
querying and manipulating plugins, and for exposing plugin-backed
functionality to _napari_. **Discovery** is the process that finds plugins,
parses the manifests and indexes them for later use. The [npe2][] library
manages these responsibilities.

## Configuring a python package to use a plugin manifest

### 1. Add package metadata for locating the manifest

The manifest file should be specified in the plugin's `setup.cfg` or
`setup.py` file using the _[entry point group][epg]_: `napari.manifest`. For
example, this would be the section for a plugin `npe2-tester` with
`napari.yaml` as the manifest file:

```cfg
[options.entry_points]
napari.manifest =
    npe2-tester = npe2_tester:napari.yaml
```

The manifest file is specified relative to the submodule root path.
So for the example it will be loaded from: `<path/to/npe2-tester>/napari.yaml`.

### 2. Include the manifest in the package distribution

The manifest file needs to be included as _[package data][pd]_ in
distributable forms for the package. For example:

```toml
[metadata]
...
include_package_data=True

[options.package_data]
npe2_tester =
    napari.yaml
```

## Manifest schema

The plugin manifest file is a [json][], [yaml][], or [toml][] conforming to
a schema. The `npe2` package includes a command-line tool that can be used
to validate a schema:

```
pip install npe2
npe2 validate my_plugin_manifest.yml
```

The manifest file's fields are described in detail below. The manifest file's
overall structure can be viewed as a hierarchy:

```
<top-level properties>
contributions:
  commands:     <list of commands>
  readers:      <list of readers>
  writers:      <list of writers>
  sample_data:  <list of sample data providers>
  widgets:      <list of widget providers>
  themes:       <list of themes>
```

Readers, writers, sample data providers and widget providers refer to callable
python functions that a plugin defines. Each callable is identified with an
entry in the list of `commands` via a unique id. For more see {ref}`Commands`
below.

```{note}
Python package metadata (`setup.py` or `setup.cfg`) may be used to populate
some internal properties of the plugin manifest. These include the authors,
description, and version.
```

(top-level-props)=

## Top-level properties

### Required

- **name** The name of the plugin. Example: `napari-svg`. Should be a
  [PEP-8]-compatible package name. If missing, this is populated from the
  python package [name][setup-name].

### Optional

- **engine**: A SemVer compatible version string matching the versions of the
  plugin engine that the extension is compatible with. Example: "0.1.0".
  See [][compatibility] for details.
- **display_name**: User-facing text to display as the name of this plugin.
  Example: `napari SVG`. Must be 3-40 characters long, containing
  printable word characters, and must not begin or end with an underscore,
  white space, or non-word character.
- **entry_point**: The module containing the `activate()` function. Example:
  `foo.bar.baz`. This should be a fully qualified module string.

```{admonition} activation and deactivation
An `activate()` function can be used to perform one-time initialization for a
plugin.  Similarly, a `deactivate()` function can be used to perform tear-down
on deactivation.  These must be defined relative to the `entry_point`.
```

(compatibility)=

### Compatibility

A goal of `npe2` was to make it possible to add or change the plugin interface
without breaking existing plugins. This is achieved by defining an
**engine version**. When we want to change the plugin interface, we increment
this number to indicate there is something new. New plugins can opt-in to the
new behavior by declaring compatibility with that version.

When authoring a plugin, you will need to describe what is the plugin's
compatibility with `npe2`. This can be done via the `engine` field in the
plugin manifest (see {ref}`top-level-props`).

You can use the `engine` field to makes sure the plugin only gets installed
for clients that use the plugin specification you depend on.

For example, imagine you develop your plugin using the `0.1.0` engine
specification. A few months of development go by and a new API is introduced
to the plugin engine defining a new _engine version_, `0.2.0`. You add that
new API and update your plugin's manifest file accordingly.

Users running older versions of napari will not have the new API. Their plugin
engine will inspect the _engine version_ declared by your plugin and correctly
prevent your plugin from being used. When those users upgrade their napari
installation, they'll be able to take advantage of the new functionality you
added.

(commands)=

## Commands

**command** is a python function associated with an id. The **id** is
a unique identifier to which other contributions, like readers, can refer.

When a contribution like a reader refers to a command, it gives the command
meaning. The command will be expected to conform to a specific _calling
convention_. The **calling convention** is described by the argument and return
types of the associated callable, as well as conventions regarding it's
behavior.

### Required fields

- **id** An identifier used to reference this command within this plugin.
- **title** A description of the command. This might be used, for example,
  when searching in a command palette. Examples: "Generate lily sample",
  "Read tiff image", "Open gaussian blur widget".

### Optional fields

- **python_name** Fully qualified name to callable python object implementing
  this command. This usually takes the form of
  `{obj.__module__}:{obj.__qualname__}` (e.g.
  `my_package.a_module:some_function`). For a command to be useful, this
  field must be specified. If it isn't specified here it should be done
  dynamically inside the plugin's 'activate()' function. _Must_ be populated
  before being invoked at runtime.

### Example

```yaml
name: my-plugin
contribution:
  commands:
    - id: my-plugin.publish_paper
      title: Do experiments, analysis, write paper, and submit
      python_name: my_plugin:publish_func
```

````{admonition} Dynamic command registration

Commands can be registered dynamically by the plugin's `activate()` function.
This is purely an alternative to listing `python_name` in the manifest.

For example,

```python
# inside my_plugin/__init__.py
from npe2 import PluginContext
def activate(context: PluginContext):
    @context.register_command("my_plugin.hello_world")
    def _hello():
        ...

    context.register_command("my_plugin.another_command", lambda: print("yo!"))
```

The `activate()` function is called when the plugin is loaded. It is found in
the `entry_point` specified in the plugin manifest.
````

## Readers

### Required fields

- **command** Identifier of the _command_ to execute.
- **filename_patterns** List of filename patterns (for fnmatch) that this
  reader can accept. Reader will be tried only if `fnmatch(filename, pattern) == True`.

### Optional fields

- **accepts_directories** If true, the reader will accept paths to directories
  for reading data.

### Example

```yaml
name: my-reader
contribution:
  commands:
    - id: my-reader.read_npy_image
      title: Open an npy file as an image
      python_name: my_reader.load_as_image
  readers:
    - command: my-reader.read_npy_image
      accepts_directories: false
      filename_patterns: ["*.npy"]
```

### Calling convention

```python
def get_reader(path:str)->Optional[Callable[[str],List[LayerData]]]:
  ...
  return reader

def reader(path: str) -> List[LayerData]:
    ...
```

```{note}
The reader command is compatible with functions used for the `napari_get_reader`
[hook specification][get-reader-hook] used by plugins based on the
`napari-plugin-engine`. See the [](npe2-migration-guide) for more details.
```

**Parameters**

path(str)
: Path to file, directory, or resource (like a url).

**Return**

layer_data(list of LayerData)
: Each `LayerData` element is a tuple of `(data,meta,layer_type)`.

## Writers

### Required fields

- **command** Identifier of the _command_ providing the writer.
- **layer_types** List of layer type constraints. These determine what
  combinations of layers this writer handles.

### Optional fields

- **display_name** Brief text used to describe this writer when presented.
  Empty by default. When present this is presented along side the plugin name
  and may be used to distinguish the kind of writer for the user. E.g. "lossy"
  or "lossless".
- **filename_extensions** List of filename extensions compatible with this
  writer. The first entry is used as the default if necessary. Empty by default.
  When empty, any filename extension is accepted.

### Examples

**Example**

Single-layer writer

```yaml
name: napari
contributions:
  commands:
    - id: napari.write_points
      python_name: napari.plugins._builtins:napari_write_points
      title: Save points layer to csv
  writers:
    - command: napari.write_points
      filename_extensions: [".csv"]
      layer_types: ["points"]
```

**Example**

Multi-layer writer

```yaml
name: napari-svg
contributions:
  commands:
    - id: napari-svg.svg_writer
      python_name: napari-svg.hook_implementations:writer
      title: Save layers as SVG
  writers:
    - command: napari_svg.svg_writer
      layer_types: ["image*", "labels*", "points*", "shapes*", "vectors*"]
      filename_extensions: [".svg"]
```

### Layer type constraints

Given a set of layers, compatible writer plugins are selected based their
_layer type constraints_.

A writer plugin can declare that it will write between _m_ and _n_ layers of a
specific type where _0≤m≤n_.

For example:

```
    image      Write exactly 1 image layer.
    image?     Write 0 or 1 image layers.
    image+     Write 1 or more image layers.
    image*     Write 0 or more image layers.
    image{k}   Write exactly k image layers.
    image{m,n} Write between m and n layers (inclusive range). Must have m<=n.
```

When a type is not present in the list of constraints, that corresponds to a
writer that is not compatible with that type. For example, a writer declaring:

```
    layer_types=["image+", "points*"]
```

would not be selected when trying to write an `image` and a `vector` layer
because the above only works for cases with 0 `vector` layers.

Note that just because a writer declares compatibility with a layer type does
not mean it actually writes that type. In the example above, the writer might
accept a set of layers containing `image`s and `point`s, but the write command
might just ignore the `point` layers. The writer must return `None` for
unwritten layers.

### Calling convention

Currently, two calling conventions are supported for writers: single-layer and
multi-layer writers. When at most one layer can be matched by a writer, it
must use the single-layer convention. Otherwise, the multi-layer convention
must be used.

#### multi-layer writer

```python
def writer_function(
    path: str, layer_data: List[LayerData]
) -> List[str]:
    ...
```

**Parameters**

path(str)
: Path to file, directory, or resource (like a url).

layer_data(list of LayerData)
: Each `LayerData` element is a tuple of `(data,meta,layer_type)`.

**Return**

Returns a list of paths that were successfully written.

#### single-layer writer

```python
def writer_function(
    path: str, data, meta
) -> Optional[str]:
    ...
```

**Parameters**

path(str)
: Path to file, directory, or resource (like a url).

data(array or list of array) : Layer data. Can be N dimensional. If an image
and meta[‘rgb’] is True then the data should be interpreted as RGB or RGBA. If
meta[‘multiscale’] is True, then the data should be interpreted as a
multiscale image.

meta(dict)
: layer attributes.

**Return**

If data is successfully written, return the path that was written. Otherwise,
if nothing was done, return None.

## Sample Data

There are two ways of specifying sample data.

1. As a **sample data generator**, a function that returns layer data.
2. As a **sample data uri**, a `uri` that should be read using a `reader`
   plugin.

### Required fields

_sample data generator_

- **command** Identifier of a command that returns a layer data tuple.
- **display_name** String to show in the GUI when referring to this sample.
- **key** A key to identify this sample. Must be unique across the samples
  provided by a single plugin.

_sample data uri_

- **uri** Path or URL to a data resource.
- **display_name** String to show in the GUI when referring to this sample.
- **key** A key to identify this sample. Must be unique across the samples
  provided by a single plugin.

### Optional fields

_sample data uri_

- **reader_plugin** Name of plugin to use to open the `uri`.

### Examples

**Example**

Sample data generator

```yaml
name: napari
contributions:
  commands:
    - id: napari.data.astronaut
      title: Generate astronaut sample
      python_name: napari.plugins._skimage_data:astronaut
  sample_data:
    - display_name: Astronaut (RGB)
      key: astronaut
      command: napari.data.astronaut
```

**Example**

Sample data uri

```yaml
name: my-sample
contributions:
  sample_data:
    - display_name: Tabueran Kiribati
      key: napari
      uri: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Napari#/media/File:Tabuaeran_Kiribati.jpg
```

### Calling convention

_sample data generator_

```python
def sample_data_generator()->List[LayerData]:
  ...
```

## Widgets

```{note}
The `napari_experimental_provide_dock_widget` and
`napari_experimental_provide_function` hook implementations may be bound as the
callable for Widget contributions.  `napari_experimental_provide_function`
should use `autogenerate: true`.  See more details below.
```

### Required fields

- **command** Identifier of a command that returns a Widget instance. The
  `python_name` of the command must be populated before being invoked.
- **display_name** User-facing name to use for the widget in, for example,
  menu items.

### Optional fields

- **autogenerate** If True, the widget will be automatically generated with
  [magicgui] using the type-signature of the associated command.

### Examples

```yaml
name: napari-animation
contributions:
  commands:
    - id: napari-animation.AnimationWidget
      python_name: napari_animation._hookimpls:AnimationWidget
      title: Open animation wizard
  widgets:
    - command: napari-animation.AnimationWidget
      display_name: Wizard
```

### Calling Convention

```python

# Bind the constructor as the callable:
# e.g. python_name: my-plugin.MyWidget
class MyWidget(QWidget):
  ...

# Bind the function as the callable:
# e.g. python_name: my_typed_function
@magic_factory
def my_typed_function(...):
  ...

# Use `autogenerate: true` for the Widget and bind the function as the callable:
# e.g. python_name: my_other_function
def my_other_function(image : ImageData) -> LayerDataTuple:
    # process the image
    result = -image
    # return it + some layer properties
    return result, {'colormap':'turbo'}
```

## Themes

### Required fields

- **label** Label of the color theme as shown in the UI.
- **id** Id of the color theme as used in the user settings.
- **type** "dark" or "light"
- **colors**
  - **canvas**
  - **console**
  - **background**
  - **foreground**
  - **primary**
  - **secondary**
  - **highlight**
  - **text**
  - **icon**
  - **warning**
  - **current**

### Example

```yaml
themes:
  - label: "Monokai"
    id: "monokai"
    type: "dark"
    colors:
      canvas: "#000000"
      console: "#000000"
      background: "#272822"
      foreground: "#75715e"
      primary: "#cfcfc2"
      secondary: "#f8f8f2"
      highlight: "#e6db74"
      text: "#a1ef34"
      warning: "#f92672"
      current: "#66d9ef"
```

[epg]: https://packaging.python.org/specifications/entry-points/
[pd]: https://setuptools.pypa.io/en/latest/userguide/datafiles.html
[npe2]: https://github.com/tlambert03/npe2
[json]: https://www.json.org/
[yaml]: https://yaml.org/
[toml]: https://toml.io/
[pydantic]: https://pydantic-docs.helpmanual.io/
[pluginmanifest]: https://github.com/tlambert03/npe2/blob/main/npe2/manifest/schema.py
[pep-8]: https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/
[setup-name]: https://packaging.python.org/guides/distributing-packages-using-setuptools/#name
[setup-version]: https://packaging.python.org/guides/distributing-packages-using-setuptools/#version
[setup-desc]: https://packaging.python.org/guides/distributing-packages-using-setuptools/#description
[setup-lic]: https://packaging.python.org/guides/distributing-packages-using-setuptools/#license
[setup-classifier]: https://packaging.python.org/guides/distributing-packages-using-setuptools/#classifiers
[spdx]: https://spdx.org/licenses/
[get-reader-hook]: https://napari.org/plugins/stable/hook_specifications.html#napari.plugins.hook_specifications.napari_get_reader
[get-writer-hook]: https://napari.org/plugins/stable/hook_specifications.html#napari.plugins.hook_specifications.napari_get_writer
[write-image-hook]: https://napari.org/plugins/stable/hook_specifications.html#napari.plugins.hook_specifications.napari_write_image
[magicgui]: https://napari.org/magicgui/
