_sources/gallery/add_vectors_color_by_angle.rst, before:


.. DO NOT EDIT.
.. THIS FILE WAS AUTOMATICALLY GENERATED BY SPHINX-GALLERY.
.. TO MAKE CHANGES, EDIT THE SOURCE PYTHON FILE:
.. "gallery/add_vectors_color_by_angle.py"
.. LINE NUMBERS ARE GIVEN BELOW.

.. only:: html

    .. note::
        :class: sphx-glr-download-link-note

        Click :ref:`here <sphx_glr_download_gallery_add_vectors_color_by_angle.py>`
        to download the full example code

.. rst-class:: sphx-glr-example-title

.. _sphx_glr_gallery_add_vectors_color_by_angle.py:


Add vectors color by angle
==========================

This example generates a set of vectors in a spiral pattern.
The color of the vectors is mapped to their 'angle' feature.

.. GENERATED FROM PYTHON SOURCE LINES 9-61



.. image-sg:: /gallery/images/sphx_glr_add_vectors_color_by_angle_001.png
   :alt: add vectors color by angle
   :srcset: /gallery/images/sphx_glr_add_vectors_color_by_angle_001.png
   :class: sphx-glr-single-img





.. code-block:: default


    import napari
    from skimage import data
    import numpy as np


    # create the viewer and window
    viewer = napari.Viewer()

    layer = viewer.add_image(data.camera(), name='photographer')

    # sample vector coord-like data
    n = 300
    pos = np.zeros((n, 2, 2), dtype=np.float32)
    phi_space = np.linspace(0, 4 * np.pi, n)
    radius_space = np.linspace(0, 100, n)

    # assign x-y position
    pos[:, 0, 0] = radius_space * np.cos(phi_space) + 300
    pos[:, 0, 1] = radius_space * np.sin(phi_space) + 256

    # assign x-y projection
    pos[:, 1, 0] = 2 * radius_space * np.cos(phi_space)
    pos[:, 1, 1] = 2 * radius_space * np.sin(phi_space)

    # make the angle feature, range 0-2pi
    angle = np.mod(phi_space, 2 * np.pi)

    # create a feature that is true for all angles  > pi
    pos_angle = angle > np.pi

    # create the features dictionary.
    features = {
        'angle': angle,
        'pos_angle': pos_angle,
    }

    # add the vectors
    layer = viewer.add_vectors(
        pos,
        edge_width=3,
        features=features,
        edge_color='angle',
        edge_colormap='husl',
        name='vectors'
    )

    # set the edge color mode to colormap
    layer.edge_color_mode = 'colormap'

    if __name__ == '__main__':
        napari.run()


.. _sphx_glr_download_gallery_add_vectors_color_by_angle.py:


.. only :: html

 .. container:: sphx-glr-footer
    :class: sphx-glr-footer-example



  .. container:: sphx-glr-download sphx-glr-download-python

     :download:`Download Python source code: add_vectors_color_by_angle.py <add_vectors_color_by_angle.py>`



  .. container:: sphx-glr-download sphx-glr-download-jupyter

     :download:`Download Jupyter notebook: add_vectors_color_by_angle.ipynb <add_vectors_color_by_angle.ipynb>`


.. only:: html

 .. rst-class:: sphx-glr-signature

    `Gallery generated by Sphinx-Gallery <https://sphinx-gallery.github.io>`_

Commit message:

deploy: napari/napari@13aa085c1d81d01bbf29a1ec548bad33a251f766

_sources/gallery/add_vectors_color_by_angle.rst, after:


.. DO NOT EDIT.
.. THIS FILE WAS AUTOMATICALLY GENERATED BY SPHINX-GALLERY.
.. TO MAKE CHANGES, EDIT THE SOURCE PYTHON FILE:
.. "gallery/add_vectors_color_by_angle.py"
.. LINE NUMBERS ARE GIVEN BELOW.

.. only:: html

    .. note::
        :class: sphx-glr-download-link-note

        Click :ref:`here <sphx_glr_download_gallery_add_vectors_color_by_angle.py>`
        to download the full example code

.. rst-class:: sphx-glr-example-title

.. _sphx_glr_gallery_add_vectors_color_by_angle.py:


Add vectors color by angle
==========================

This example generates a set of vectors in a spiral pattern.
The color of the vectors is mapped to their 'angle' feature.

.. GENERATED FROM PYTHON SOURCE LINES 9-61



.. image-sg:: /gallery/images/sphx_glr_add_vectors_color_by_angle_001.png
   :alt: add vectors color by angle
   :srcset: /gallery/images/sphx_glr_add_vectors_color_by_angle_001.png
   :class: sphx-glr-single-img


.. rst-class:: sphx-glr-script-out

 Out:

 .. code-block:: none

    /opt/hostedtoolcache/Python/3.9.12/x64/lib/python3.9/site-packages/imageio/__init__.py:89: DeprecationWarning: Starting with ImageIO v3 the behavior of this function will switch to that of iio.v3.imread. To keep the current behavior (and make this warning dissapear) use `import imageio.v2 as imageio` or call `imageio.v2.imread` directly.
      warnings.warn(
    /home/runner/work/napari/napari/napari/utils/colormaps/colormap_utils.py:397: DeprecationWarning: Colormap 'husl' has been deprecated since vispy 0.7. Please import and create 'vispy.color.colormap.HSLuv' directly instead.
      cmap = get_colormap(name)






|

.. code-block:: default


    import napari
    from skimage import data
    import numpy as np


    # create the viewer and window
    viewer = napari.Viewer()

    layer = viewer.add_image(data.camera(), name='photographer')

    # sample vector coord-like data
    n = 300
    pos = np.zeros((n, 2, 2), dtype=np.float32)
    phi_space = np.linspace(0, 4 * np.pi, n)
    radius_space = np.linspace(0, 100, n)

    # assign x-y position
    pos[:, 0, 0] = radius_space * np.cos(phi_space) + 300
    pos[:, 0, 1] = radius_space * np.sin(phi_space) + 256

    # assign x-y projection
    pos[:, 1, 0] = 2 * radius_space * np.cos(phi_space)
    pos[:, 1, 1] = 2 * radius_space * np.sin(phi_space)

    # make the angle feature, range 0-2pi
    angle = np.mod(phi_space, 2 * np.pi)

    # create a feature that is true for all angles  > pi
    pos_angle = angle > np.pi

    # create the features dictionary.
    features = {
        'angle': angle,
        'pos_angle': pos_angle,
    }

    # add the vectors
    layer = viewer.add_vectors(
        pos,
        edge_width=3,
        features=features,
        edge_color='angle',
        edge_colormap='husl',
        name='vectors'
    )

    # set the edge color mode to colormap
    layer.edge_color_mode = 'colormap'

    if __name__ == '__main__':
        napari.run()


.. _sphx_glr_download_gallery_add_vectors_color_by_angle.py:


.. only :: html

 .. container:: sphx-glr-footer
    :class: sphx-glr-footer-example



  .. container:: sphx-glr-download sphx-glr-download-python

     :download:`Download Python source code: add_vectors_color_by_angle.py <add_vectors_color_by_angle.py>`



  .. container:: sphx-glr-download sphx-glr-download-jupyter

     :download:`Download Jupyter notebook: add_vectors_color_by_angle.ipynb <add_vectors_color_by_angle.ipynb>`


.. only:: html

 .. rst-class:: sphx-glr-signature

    `Gallery generated by Sphinx-Gallery <https://sphinx-gallery.github.io>`_
